Interview Questions on Jenkins  : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2AVp9kie6s8

What is Jenkins?
What is the difference between Jenkins and bamboo
Define the process of Jenkins
What are the benefits of using Jenkins?
What are the pre-requisites for using Jenkins
What is the relation between the Jenkins and Hudson?
Mention some of the useful plugins in Jenkins
How do you install Jenkins?
What are the two components Jenkins is mainly integrated with?
What is maven? What is the benefit of integrating maven with Jenkins?
Mention the commands you can use to start Jenkins manually
Which SCM tools Jenkins supports?
How will you define post in Jenkins?
What are the parameters in Jenkins?
What is groovy?
How can you clone a git repository via Jenkins?
Explain how can setup the Jenkins job
How to create a backup and copy files in Jenkins?
How will you secure Jenkins
Explain how you can deploy a custom build of a core plugin
What you do when you see a broken build for your project in Jenkins?
What are the various ways in which build can be scheduled in Jenkins?
What is the use of pipeline in Jenkins?
Explain the term Agent, post-section, Jekinsfile?
Do you know about cloud computing? How can Jenkins fit into a cloud computing environment?
What is the kubernetes? Can it be used with Jenkins?
Is it possible to run automated tests on Jenkins?
In a pipeline, the first job was successful, but the second failed. What should you do next?
What is the use of Jenkins home directory?
What is a backup plugin? Why it is used?
What is the trigger?  how the repository is polled when a new commit is detected?
How do you define parameters for a build in Jenkins?
What are the ways to configure Jenkins node agent to communicate with Jenkins master?
How does Jenkins authenticate users?
How can you use a third-party tool in Jenkins?
What are the types of pipelines in Jenkins? – CICD, Scripted & Declarative Pipeline
What syntax does Jenkins use to schedule build job or SVN polling?
What is DevOps and in which stage does Jenkins fit in?
Do you know any other continuous integration tools? How is Jenkins is better than others?
Name a Jenkins environment variable you have used in a shell script or batch file?
What is continuous integration in Jenkins?
How is continuous integration achieved using Jenkins?
What is a DSL Jenkins?
How do you create multibranch pipeline in Jenkins?
What are the types of jobs or projects in Jenkins?
What is blue ocean in Jenkins?
What do you mean by pipeline as code?
What is continuous testing?
How to integrate git with Jenkins?
What is the difference between continuous delivery & continuous deployment?
